- [Instructor] Java EE support for bean validation
makes it simple to validate the data populated
within the fields of our beans.
Within the API, there is support
for several built-in constraints
that can be applied to bean fields using annotations.
Let's take a look at those in action.
So within our CatalogItem bean,
we're going to go ahead
and apply a built-in constraint to the ItemManager's field.
The constraint we're adding is the Size annotation
and this is going to allow us to specify a minimum number
of items within our collection
and a maximum number of items.
So here we're allowing anywhere from zero
to three items within the ItemManager collection.
And then we're going to move on to the name field
and within the name field,
we're going to annotate that with the NotBlank annotation
and this is a combination of several annotations.
First, it's going to check that the field is not null.
Then it's going to check that the field
has a length to it.
So it's not just an empty string.
And then it's also really nice,
it's going to make sure it's not just white space.
So it's a very powerful annotation for strings.
And then moving on, we're going to leverage
the Pattern annotation of the manufacturer.
So here we can go ahead
and specify a regular expression.
And the regular expression just goes within a string.
And we're going to enter an expression
that basically constrains this to alpha characters
so we can allow those
and nothing else.
And then we can also specify the message element here
so we can just it must be letters
and we can give the user some information.
And then I'm just going to go ahead
and copy this and we're going
to apply the Pattern annotation
on our Description.
We're going to go ahead and change this up a little bit.
We'll just modify our regex to only allow between five
and 10 characters.
Okay and then you'll notice
that we have a date field.
So our availableDate
and what we're going to do here add the Future annotation.
This is one of the new annotations within Java EE 8
and if you've ever had to check
to make sure date is past or present,
this is extremely convenient.
Next, we're going to flip over to our ItemManager
and you'll notice that I've added a field
on the ItemManager.
This is the email field
and that's also now on our form.
And all we need to do in order to check an email
is add the Email annotation.
And if you've ever validated an email,
you know that can be complex as well.
Traditionally, you're using a regex
and then there's different variants.
Well, Java EE and its bean validation API
make it extremely simple.
Just add the Email annotation.
Okay, so let's go ahead and save that
and then I just want to quickly show you what we've done
in our form.
You'll remember that we used this message tag
within the HTML tag library for JSF.
I've just applied that to each one of our fields.
That way we can see the messages that will get returned
from our different built-in constraints
in the validation API.
Okay, so with that in place,
let's quickly check our server.
I'm going to go ahead and remove the existing project
and then we can run our ear on the server.
So there we see our server starting up.
I'm going to open a browser
so that we can test this out.
Okay, so here's our form
and I'm just going to go ahead and try to summit
and you'll immediately notice
that we received some validation messages
because we did not meet the criteria.
So let's go ahead now
and we're going to add in some data.
And we can just test our validators.
I'm going to flip this back to 2018.
And you'll notice that we satisfied
the Product Name validation.
But we have not satisfied some of the others.
So you'll notice, we were including a space
in the Manufacturer name which wasn't allowed
and then here our date was in the past,
so let's go ahead and make sure
we are in the future.
And then from here, you'll notice the description needed
to be letters.
So let's go ahead now and we can submit.
Okay, so our validation worked
and then we're going to go to the Item page
and we added some validation here
in order to validate that email.
So I'm just going to enter something
that is not an email.
And you'll see that we get warned
that we need a valid email.
So let's go ahead
and add something that looks more like an email address
and then we're going to go ahead,
add item managers.
And we can see the validation was applied.
All right, so that sums up our lesson
on the built-in validators
that are provided within Java EE.